Hire Me, You Know You Want To
Career Fair 2006, the first step to success. What the career center handbook does not mention is the weeks, even yearlong preparation work before the big day. The engineering honor societies would normally post all the company information online two weeks before the actual career fair in early September each year, to aid engineering students through what most upperclassmen refer to as living hell because of its machine-like elimination process and cruelty. Desperation and depression syndromes are not uncommon among engineering students in the months following because of the impact career fair leaves behind. A friend has once painstakingly described his career fair experience to be a beggar in a suit, and you see these beggars everywhere: dressed in suits from outlet stores; hunched back with heavy backpacks full of engineering books; and beaten harshly by the reality while their eyes scream desperation.
However, for freshman, career fair is practically a shopping spree. One month into college, their resumes are blank while they struggle to calculate an expected GPA. After they face the reality of the market and decide that they are not in any hurry or any competent position in finding an internship or a full-time job, they scurry through suits and ties and high heels while maintain their eye contact perpetually at table level, only to momentarily stop in front of their desired station and collect freebies: from mechanical pencil to stuffed animals to electronic laser tags. Later, they would triumphantly show their despaired upperclassmen their bagful of finds and maybe even spare a toy or two. Little do they know that only a year from now, they would be the ones shinning away from the pepperoni pizza smelled freshman in fear of crumpling and staining their well-ironed shirts.
8:30am, catch the recruiters while their morning coffees are still fresh. Dressed in the more traditional black suit and black leather pumps, I am doing a last minute check in the basement bathroom mirror before I walk up to the Pierpont Duderstat connector on north campus, already crammed with engineering students, waiting patiently inline along the walls to talk to the recruiters. A good candidate knows the importance of keeping composure and presenting themselves even when no one is watching. 1 The recruiters at the engineering career fair are flown in from all over the United States, hired by more than two hundred companies ranging from small consulting firms to big corporations, to recruit the best of the best, namely Michigan graduates.
The competition is still fierce, especially between students of the same major. My friends constantly show their frustration by telling me that they can’t believe the guy sitting quietly besides them in their engineering course interviewed for the same company as them and got an offer while they were turned down. Although that being the downside of career fair, it has always been interesting going to class on the day of, and seeing everyone dressed in their best outfit, mostly new clothes since we are used to jeans and Michigan sweatshirts. Even the guy with funky T-shirt of a baby head had changed into a conservative white dress shirt and a pair of black pants over black shoes.